CASCAIS, Portugal, June 3, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The EurAfrican Forum organization (www.EurAfricanForum.org) announced today that chef Elijah Amoo Addo, founder and CEO of the Food for All Africa, will deliver a pitch about how food can be a link between people and regions to establish stronger relations for Europe and Africa on the first day of the event, July 4, at the Forum’s lunch.


                                Addo left full-time work as a chef to start the programme in 2012
                            

"The EurAfrican Forum is a major platform which addresses the realities of Europe's influence on Africa and the need for Europeans to work with youth led African organizations and entrepreneurs to address challenges facing both continents. I am resolute on partnering with European partners to explore youth led opportunities driven by technology and would ensure Food for All contributes to an efficient and sustainable means of nutrition for all by 2032", states Elijah Amoo Addo, who will also be collaborating with the event on the preparation of the Forum’s setting menu, along with the Portuguese chef Marcelo Tomás. 

Elijah Amoo Addo is the founder and Executive Director of the Food for All Africa Programme, which recovers surplus food from supermarkets, restaurants and other sources in Ghana and distributes it mostly to facilities for children, the elderly and mentally-challenged persons. Addo says three out of five children on the streets of Ghana are out of school because they don’t get enough to eat. The programme works with community-run, free schools to provide meals.

Addo left full-time work as a chef to start the programme in 2012. He was inspired by a mentally-challenged man who recovered food from street vendors and shared it with others in need. The programme also runs “SDG 2” (Zero Hunger) crop and livestock farms and stores to foster agricultural employment and distribute rural products in urban centers. Addo aims to grow his network of public and private-sector partners with the help of a stakeholders’ forum and the government.