CASABLANCA, Morocco, June 17, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Two agreements have been signed today:




	(1) an agreement between Eurorepar Car Service and UADH, on the deployment of the multibrand network in Africa,
	(2) an agreement between UADH and OLA Energy (OLAEnergy.com), to incorporate Eurorepar Car Service workshops into the OLA Energy service stations network.




Agreement between PSA Group and UADH
                                We are happy to be consolidating our links with our two longstanding partners, the PSA Group and OLA Energy, with whom we have worked with in Tunisia
                            

UADH and the PSA Group have today opened a new chapter in their partnership on the African market. Through Aurès Auto, the UADH holding company imports the Citroen brand into Tunisia. Via a joint venture with STAFIM (importer of the Peugeot brand) it is already participating in the deployment of Eurorepar Car Service in Tunisia.

The new agreement signed today covers the deployment of the Eurorepar Car Service network, firstly to Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal, with a possible rollout to other countries in Sub-Saharan and Eastern Africa.

Agreement between UADH and OLA Energy

OLA Energy is a key operator in the distribution of petroleum products across Africa. The agreement signed today with UADH covers the establishment of Eurorepar Car Service workshops at OLA Energy service stations in Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal, with a further expansion envisaged throughout the operator’s pan-African network.

For UADH, this is an opportunity to fast-track the deployment of the Eurorepar Car Service network via existing sites and to offer the PSA Group’s range of multibrand spare parts, including the Eurorepar range, which has over 60 000 items in 12 product families.

A double win for Eurorepar Car Service in Africa

Commenting on the agreement, Walid Loukil, Deputy CEO at UADH, stressed: “We are happy to be consolidating our links with our two longstanding partners, the PSA Group and OLA Energy, with whom we have worked with in Tunisia. The agreements signed today will enable our three entities, which until now had been operating individually in Africa, with considerable success, to give Eurorepar Car Service the benefit of our respective know-how and our various networks, enabling it to spread out rapidly across Africa.”

Maurizio Libutti, Chief Operating Officer at OLA Energy, pointed out: “we aim to achieve a comprehensive and integrated customer experience, offering a higher level of quality and closer ties with our customers. By optimising the range of first-class services available at service stations, this partnership of excellence will enable OLA Energy and UADH customers to benefit from synergies between automotive maintenance and service stations.”