ROME, Italy, March 27, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            1-5 April 2019, Plenary Hall, FAO Rome. The meeting is open to media



The Commission on Phytosanitary Measures (CPM) - the governing body of the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC) - will hold its annual meeting to review the state of plant health and protection, and adopt new international standards aimed at stopping the spread of plant pests, including protocols to block devastating pests such as Xylella fastidiosa and the oriental fruit fly.

Globally, annual crop losses to plant pests are estimated to be between 20 to 40 percent of production. Plant diseases cost the global economy around $220 billion each year.
                                The IPPC is the only international body for setting and implementing phytosanitary standards to protect plants from pests and diseases
                            

The IPPC is the only international body for setting and implementing phytosanitary standards to protect plants from pests and diseases, and ensure safe trade in plants that is recognized by the World Trade Organization SPS Agreement and governments around the world.

During its 14th session, the Commission will adopt:


	A new standard to provide guidance on improved fumigation methods to control regulated pests. This is in response to growing concerns over fumigants that can be harmful to human health and the environment.
	Diagnostics protocols that describe procedures and methods for the official diagnosis of six pests, including Xylella fastidiosa - a bacterium that has been increasingly spreading and attacking economically important crops such as olive, citrus or plum trees and grapevines - and the oriental fruit fly (Bactrocera dorsalis), which has affected trees such as avocado, banana, guava and mango in at least 65 countries in sub-Saharan Africa and Oceania.




The Commission will discuss the concept of commodity and pathway standards to support the setting up of ground rules for countries to commence trade also with the aim of introducing new opportunities for developing countries.

The week-long meeting will also discuss High-throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies to detect regulated pests and make recommendations for countries who choose to use HTS, which are in the early stages of development.

It will also bring together main actors of sea containers’ regulators and industry to discuss ways of reducing risks of plant pests during their transportation in sea containers.