NAIROBI, Kenya, March 12, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Head Coach Paul Odera has narrowed down his team to participate in the 2019 Barthes Cup to 36 players with three weeks to go. The team has been training every Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday since January as they prepare for their biggest tournament of the year.



They will have the final camp on the 30th of March to 1st April after which they will name the final 25 who will participate in the Barthes Cup.

The tournament will be held on 4th of April when Namibia will face Senegal at 2:00pm followed by the Tunisia vs Kenya match at 4:00pm on the same day. Sunday 7th, will host finals; the two losers will face each 0ther at 2:00pm in the third and fourth match which will curtain raise Barthes Cup Division 1A final between the two winners at 4:00pm. The eventual winner will represent Africa in the Junior World Rugby Trophy Championships later in the year. Tickets are available at tickets.daitec.co.ke (bit.ly/2HsJbv8) for 300/- per day.
                                The tournament will be held on 4th of April when Namibia will face Senegal at 2:00pm followed by the Tunisia vs Kenya match at 4:00pm on the same day
                            

“The preparation is going on well. Best thing about this season is that despite starting late the quality of players is one to admire the momentum is building.

Through the training sessions, We’ve seen that there are players who are able to deal with the pressure of playing at International rugby level and they’ve also learnt a lot about themselves. We have around 10 players returning from last year’s championship which is good experience and a big boost for our preparations having come close to beating Namibia last year.

It will be important to have a conversation with each individual player so that they can see where they are and where we can move them forward from here before the tournament.” – Jimmy Mnene, Team Manager

Tatu City Nondies – Ian Njenga, Brian Amaitsa, Kenya Harlequins – Steve Biko, Bonface Ochieng, James Mcgreevy, Douglas Kahuri, Northern Suburbs – Wilfred Waswa, USIU Africa – Jeff Kiragu, Kelvin Munene, Blakblad – Collins Obure, Sheldon Kahi, Resolution Impala Saracens – Ian Masheti, Frank Aduda, Menengai Oilers  – Edward Mwaura, Ibrahim Ayoo, Beldad Ogeta, Menengai Cream Homeboyz – Emmanuel Silungi, Johnstone Olindi, Kelvin Agwambo, Stanbic Mwamba – Martin Oyugi, Charles Wangwe, Laiser Hill Academy – Samuel Osongo, Alspencer Owade, KCB – Samuel Asati, Stephen Osumba, George Maranga, Geoffrey Okwach, Top Fry Nakuru – Lorence Ishuga, John Okoth, Strathmore Leos – Andrew Matoka,

University of Pretoria – Jeff Mutuku, Merchiston Castle School, UK – Ashley Owain, George Kiryazi, Marlborough College, UK – Dominic Coulson, Millfield School, UK – Rotuk Rahedi, Sharks Academy – Andrew Siminyu, Liaison – Mweti Muriithi