LONDON, United Kingdom, March 20, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Yesterday, over 7,500 emergency shelter kits and 100 family tents, all funded by UK aid, arrived in Mozambique for onward distribution to families who have had to flee their homes; Today’s package takes the UK’s total support to help the victims of the cyclone to £18 million.



There are images and videos of UK aid arriving in Maputo yesterday (20 March) available here. We only released this footage this afternoon. Please credit “Department for International Development” if used. For bids or interview requests, please call the DFID Press Office on 0207 023 0600.

The UK is to provide an extra £12 million of support, including food, water and shelter, to the survivors of Cyclone Idai in Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe.

International Development Secretary Penny Mordaunt announced the new funding today (Wednesday) – taking the UK’s additional support for victims of the cyclone to £18 million.

Yesterday, over 7,500 emergency shelter kits and 100 family tents, all funded by UK aid, arrived in Mozambique for onward distribution to families who have had to flee their homes.

International Development Secretary Penny Mordaunt said:
                                The UK was one of the first countries to respond to this disaster
                            

"I’ve been extremely moved by the images I’ve seen of this devastating cyclone which has caused misery for millions of people across Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe. This is, undoubtedly, one of the biggest natural disasters to ever hit the region, and our thoughts remain firmly with the victims of this cyclone."

"Today’s UK aid package is a sign of the UK’s commitment to do all we can to make sure those in desperate need of humanitarian relief have access to life-saving essentials, including food, water and shelter."

"The UK was one of the first countries to respond to this disaster. We are keeping the situation under close review."

UK aid will be used to help meet immediate needs on the ground across the countries affected, including:


	making sure families have access to clean water to drink and wash, which will also help to stop the spread of deadly diseases
	providing food and food vouchers to those affected
	ensuring that those that have been left homeless are able to access safe shelter.




Speaking from Maputo, Head of DFID Mozambique Cate Turton said:

"This is one of the biggest humanitarian disasters that this region has ever faced, and we’re doing all that we can to get aid to those desperately in need."

"Our absolutely priority at the moment is to get food, water and other critical supplies to affected communities, many of which are cut off because of damage to roads and infrastructure."