NEW YORK, United States of America, March 21, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres today announced the appointment of Denise Brown of Canada as his new Deputy Special Representative for the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA), where she will also serve as United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator. 





Ms. Brown succeeds Najat Rochdi of Morocco, who completed her assignment in February 2019. The Secretary-General is grateful for Ms. Rochdi’s leadership and dedicated commitment during her tenure to supporting recovery, peacebuilding and humanitarian efforts in the Central African Republic. 
                                Ms. Brown has spent most of her career based in the field, with WFP, covering a range of situations in Niger, Somalia, Kenya, Afghanistan and Iraq
                            



Ms. Brown brings to the position over two decades of professional experience and an extensive knowledge in humanitarian affairs and recovery programmes with a particular focus on contexts of complex emergencies, and a thematic focus on operations, programme development, coordination and interagency relations. She has been serving at World Food Programme (WFP) headquarters in Rome since 2017, first as Director of the Emergency Preparedness and Support Response Division then, since 2018, as Director of Policy and Programmes. From 2013 to 2016, she was the WFP Director for West and Central Africa based in Dakar, Senegal and covering 20 countries. Ms. Brown has spent most of her career based in the field, with WFP, covering a range of situations in Niger, Somalia, Kenya, Afghanistan and Iraq. She has also worked in Haiti and Cambodia with non-governmental organizations.



Ms. Brown holds a Master of Science degree in Children’s Development from Purdue University, United States.



Born in 1963, Ms. Brown is married and has three children.