JUBA, South Sudan, March 25, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Hon. Ezekiel Lol Gatkuoth, Minister of Petroleum of South Sudan, met with Abdallah Mubarak Al-Khalifa, Acting Group Chief Executive Officer of Qatar National Bank; South Sudan affirms commitment to building infrastructure and funding businesses with support of QNB; QNB has provided technical and financial support to South Sudan and opened in the country in 2011.







South Sudan’s Minister of Petroleum today visited the Acting CEO of Qatar National Bank (QNB) in Doha. In his meeting with Mr. Abdallah Mubarak Al-Khalifa, Hon. Minister Ezekiel Lol Gatkuoth discussed the need to continue efforts to resume production at oilfields. He thanked the bank for the technical and financial support provided to South Sudan and reaffirmed his commitment to strengthening ties.


                                Qatar has been a friend to South Sudan, and Qatar National Bank in particularly, has been a real partner during our critical first years of independence
                            

QNB was the first Middle Eastern bank to open in South Sudan in 2011 and provided a line of credit to purchase food and fuel in 2014.



The Minister discussed with Al-Khalifa the cooperation between Qatar National Bank and Republic of South Sudan in the fields of trade, commerce, economic development, support for small businesses, and infrastructure projects. South Sudan has resumed production at key oilfields including Unity in 2019, and aims to raise oil output to up to 500,000 barrels per day.



“Qatar has been a friend to South Sudan, and Qatar National Bank in particularly, has been a real partner during our critical first years of independence. We look forward to continuing this relationship as our prospects improve and our economy grows,” said Hon. Ezekiel Lol Gatkuoth. “Together we have a lot of work to do to bring oil production back on stream at full strength. I have confidence with QBN and our Qatari partners we can go far.”



The Ministry of Petroleum will welcome the global finance sector to the annual South Sudan Oil & Power conference on October 28-30 in Juba. Find out more at www.SSOP2019.com