TOKYO, Japan, March 19, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Government of Japan has been providing funds to local non-profit organizations through the Grant Assistance for Grassroots Human Security Projects (GGP) since 1989.



The official handing over ceremony of “The Project for Expansion of Kimilili D.E.B Special School for Mentally Handicapped”, a GGP project, will be held at the school in Kimilili, Bungoma County. The Grant Contract for this project was signed on 26th of November 2017.



The project received a grant amount of USD 80,607 (approx. Kshs 8Million) for the construction of a classroom, two latrine blocks, two dormitories and the purchase of desks and beds for students. Before the completion of the dormitory, the learners were forced to come from far, or they just gave up schooling. Now, the students have a comfortable dormitory, complete with attached toilets and shower space, located inside the school compound. 






	
		
			
			Project :
			
			
			The Project for Expansion of Kimilili D.E.B Special School for Mentally Handicapped
			
		
		
			
			Grantee:
			
			
			Kimilili D.E.B Special School for Mentally Handicapped
			
		
		
			
			Grant Amount:
			
			
			US$80,607 (approx. Kshs 8 Million)
			
		
		
			
			Event:
			
			
			Handing Over Ceremony
			
		
		
			
			Date:
			
			
			19th March 2019
			
		
		
			
			Time:
			
			
			10:00am – 13:00pm
			
		
		
			
			Venue:
			
			
			Kimilili D.E.B Special School for Mentally Handicapped

			Kimilili Town, Kimilili Sub-County, Bungoma County
			
		
		
			
			Key Personalities:
			
			
			H.E. Wycliffe Wafula Wangamati, Governor of Bungoma County

			Ms. Ayaka Nojiri, Second Secretary of  Embassy of Japan in Kenya 
			
		
	




̴ Representatives of the media are welcome to cover this event  ̴


	
		
			
			Contact:   Sachi Nakano (Ms.)

			                  Project Coordinator,

			                  Embassy of Japan   

			                  Email : sachi.nakano@nb.mofa.go.jp

			                                     ggp@nb.mofa.go.jp