CAIRO, Egypt, March 26, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            During his visit to Egypt this week, Administrator for the United States Agency for International Development Mark Green launched three Centers of Excellence at an inaugural event hosted by Ain Shams University. The Centers, a $90 million investment by the American people, aim to create lasting partnerships between Egyptian public universities and prominent U.S. universities in order to foster high quality applied research and to build relationships among the education community, the private sector, and policymakers.


                                Each Center of Excellence will focus on one of three key sectors – agriculture, energy, and water
                            

Each Center of Excellence will focus on one of three key sectors – agriculture, energy, and water – to share best practices, conduct joint research, and serve as the hub of a network of experts working and researching in that sector. Cornell University in New York and Cairo University are creating a Center of Excellence in Agriculture, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Ain Shams University are establishing a Center of Excellence in Energy, and the American University in Cairo and Alexandria University are developing a Center of Excellence in Water. Other U.S. and Egyptian universities will participate in the initiative, bringing a vast network of institutions and experts to bear on these important issues. Participating Egyptian universities include Benha University, Suez Canal University, Assiut University, Mansoura University, Aswan University, Zagazig University, and Beni Suef University.



At the launch event at Ain Shams University, Administrator Green explained the importance of this U.S. investment in Egypt’s future. He said, “These Centers of Excellence will not only help facilitate solutions to some of Egypt’s most pressing agriculture, energy, and water challenges, but also position the country to be a regional and global leader in the knowledge economy. Ideas generated through collaboration at these Centers of Excellence may be the spark that ignites the next big technological development, spurring new industries and prosperity across Egypt.”