JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, March 27, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Driven by young people committed to see more lives saved, Higherlife Foundation (www.HigherLifeFoundation.com) and Delta Philanthropies, are inviting other young people to join their campaign in a bid to support and stand with other young people impacted by Cyclone Idai that hit Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Malawi on 15 March 2019.



“When cyclone IDAI hit, we saw images and videos of people standing in queues with donations. Inspired by their tenacity and generosity, we have decided to ‘join the queue’, bringing together Africans, all over the world, who want to help in what has become the biggest humanitarian crisis to hit the region,” says Elizabeth Masiyiwa, Executive Director of Delta Philanthropies.


                                When cyclone IDAI hit, we saw images and videos of people standing in queues with donations
                            

The model of the campaign is simple: give and share.


	1. GIVE: We have set up a crowdfunding campaign for individuals and partners to contribute to efforts on the ground to all three countries.
	2. SHARE: On Wednesday March 27th, at 1PM GMT, we will begin with a coordinated social media blast. Alongside our crowdfunding goal, we want to tell a powerful story that Africans and friends of Africa can stand together in response to the crisis. We know that some do not have the capacity to give but they can use their voice to stand with those affected.




Pledge Idai’s goal is to raise $200,000 in 45 days through a GoFundMe page. With Delta Philanthropies, Higherlife Foundation and partners on the ground, our response  strategy will seek to recover, restore and rebuild. Floods and winds destroyed businesses, schools, clinics, churches, roads and communications infrastructure. The devastation of this disaster has left whole parts of towns in Mozambique under water. 

Cyclone Idai: The Numbers


	750 killed
	Thousands homeless
	900,000 children orphaned, separated and displaced
	2.5 million people affected




Contributions will go beyond providing for immediate needs such as water and shelter. The goal is to enable affected groups to gain the strength and self-confidence to make a fresh start, rebuild their homes, go back to work, return to the classroom and reclaim their rightful role in society. Delta Philanthropies will match the same, doubling any return on investment.