YAOUNDE, Cameroon, March 19, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Embassy of Japan in Cameroon is seeking for a consultant in charge of the Grant Assistance for Grassroots Human Security Projects carried out by the Embassy.





The position is open to Cameroonian or any person holding a valid residence and working permit in Cameroon.



For the details of the Grassroots Human Security Projects, please see the following webpages:

mofa.go.jp/files/000071826.pdf (Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan) cmr.emb-japan.go.jp/itpr_en/economic_cooperation-en.html

(Embassy of Japan in Cameroon)





[Period of contract]

April/May 2019 – March 31, 2020



[Tasks]

(Within the Embassy premises)


	
	Registration and management of the project applications, including responding to inquiries and managing application data base, etc.
	
	
	Technical analysis of the content of project applications, including cost assessment, etc.
	
	
	Taking necessary measures for the smooth implementation of ongoing projects and for the management of completed projects.
	
	
	Coordination and negotiation with organizations which are applying for or implementing projects.
	
	
	Writing various reports.

	

	(Field research for specific projects)
	
	
	Formulation of projects, including providing explanation on this scheme to applying organisations; research on requests; verification of credibility of applying organizations, past activity records and financial status; researching validity of content of project, project site and the cost; various feasibility studies, etc.
	
	
	Field monitoring of ongoing projects, including monitoring the status of construction of facilities or procurement of equipments; accounting audit, etc.
	
	
	Monitoring of completed projects and follow-ups, including monitoring of usage and

	Embassy of Japan 

	maintenance of facilities or equipments; status of accounting audit; effectiveness of benefits, etc.
	
	
	Field research on completed projects and assistant work such as arrangement of various ceremonies, including confirmation of the status of construction of facilities or procurement of equipments; coordination with the implementing organization; presiding ceremonies, etc.
	
	
	Other research and information gathering.

	

	[Qualifications / Abilities]
	
	
	University degree
	
	
	Professional aptitude for French and English
	
	
	Office software skills (Word, Excel, Outlook)
	
	
	Professional experience in the cooperation field is an asset
	
	
	Large open-mindedness and ability to work well with others
	
	
	Experience in a multicultural environment

	

	[How to apply]
	


Candidate must send application documents (CV, cover letter / letter of motivation, copies of degrees, certificates and other documents) by email to info@yd.mofa.go.jp by Friday April 5, with mention "Job Offer: Grant Assistance for Grassroots Projects" in the subject of the email. NB: Only the shortlisted candidates will be contacted by the Embassy for the following selection processes.