CAIRO, Egypt, March 19, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The UNIDO Regional Office in Egypt, is delighted to invite you to attend The Global Manufacturing and Industrialisation Summit (GMIS) Connect Cairo: Industry 4.0: Boosting Employment, Innovation and Competitiveness in Egyptian Manufacturing , to be held on 21st of March 2019 from 8:30 to 16:00 at the American University in Cairo, New Cairo Campus. 


GMIS Connect Cairo aims at gathering policymakers, representatives of the private sector, academia, research, development and technology centers, and civil society to discuss and explore the potential of Industry 4.0 for Egypt. This one-day conference is organized in the frame of Egypt’s Programme for Country Partnership (PCP), meant to support Egypt’s efforts to promote Inclusive and Sustainable Industrial Development. Egypt’s PCP will operate within the framework of Egypt’s Vision 2030, the Industrial Development and Foreign Trade 2016-2020 Strategy. The design of Egypt’s PCP is based on a robust national consultation process. In this context, GMIS Connect Cairo is the 1st consultation round, that presents a unique opportunity to hear from a cross-section of key industry stakeholders as they share their thoughts and experiences on one of the key priority issues of Egypt’s PCP: Mainstreaming Industry 4.0 in the Egyptian Industries.



Confirmed speakers include:
                                This one-day conference is organized in the frame of Egypt’s Programme for Country Partnership (PCP)
                            


	Prof. Amr A. Adly, Deputy Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research forUniversities Affairs, Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, Egypt
	Eng. Emad Ghaly, Chief Executive Officer, Siemens Egypt
	Dr. Khaled Hashem, President, Honeywell Egypt and Libya
	Giovanna Ceglie, Director and Country Representative, UNIDO
	Dr. Sherif El Diwany, Founder & CEO, Solution by Design
	Dr. Frank Hartwich, Senior Research and Industrial Policy Officer, UNIDO
	Dr. Hoda Mostafa, Associate Professor of Practice and Director, Center for Learning and Teaching, The American University in Cairo
	Ahmed Abbas, Founder and CEO, Sun City
	Eman ElKoshairy, Co-Founder and Educational Experience Lead, AlMakinah
	Ehab Usama, Co-Founder and CEO, Chitosan Egypt 






Please confirm your attendance by e-mail no later than 20 March to merhan.ghaly@un.org



Please note that the AUC will only allow the entrance of journalists who confirmed their attendance.