SOHAG, Egypt, March 7, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            In support of the Government of Egypt’s goal to meet the educational and sanitation needs of all Egyptians from all parts of the country, the Embassy is pleased to announce that two important projects in Sohag governorate became operational this week. The first, a wastewater pump station and collection system, will provide sanitation services to over 23,000 Egyptians living in Salamoun Village in Sohag governorate. The second, a University Center for Career Development at Sohag University, will increase local students’ competitiveness for jobs.


According to U.S. Charge d’Affaires Thomas Goldberger, “The Government of Egypt has outlined priorities in local development, education and healthcare that extend across the entirety of the country. These projects in Sohag represent our contribution to those priorities and demonstrate the friendship and warm feelings between the American and Egyptian people.”

With funding provided by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), in cooperation with the Sohag Potable Water and Sanitation Company and Egypt’s Holding Company for Water and Wastewater, the new wastewater system will provide access to sanitation services for thousands of residents of Sohag governorate for the first time. This wastewater collection system and pump station will help reduce public health risks and negative environmental impacts from wastewater, and has the capacity to pump 12,000 cubic meters of wastewater per day to serve 51,000 people. Over the past decade, USAID funded the construction of 10 potable water and wastewater projects in Sohag at a total cost of $21 million, supported establishment of the Sohag Potable Water and Sanitation Company in 2009, and provided equipment for a training center. USAID continues to provide institutional strengthening to build the company’s sustainability and efficiency. USAID Mission Director Sherry Carlin explained, “Since 2009, USAID’s partnership with Sohag has helped connect over 300,000 residents to potable water and sanitation. These newly inaugurated facilities will improve the health and living conditions, as well as the livelihoods, of thousands of families in Sohag governorate.”

At a separate event the same day, Carlin also inaugurated the University Center for Career Development at Sohag University, one of 20 career centers planned through a $20.8 million USAID-led initiative that will reach 70% of Egypt’s public university students. This center, launched in partnership with the Ministry of Higher Education, USAID, and the American University in Cairo, will provide university students with career mentoring, networking opportunities, and training in leadership skills, problem-solving, critical thinking, and entrepreneurship. The University Center for Career Development will also increase students’ competitiveness for jobs, including in Sohag’s thriving textile and food processing sectors.
 
Since 1978, the American people have invested $30 billion in Egypt through USAID. To learn more about USAID’s work in Egypt, please see usaid.gov/egypt, and follow on Facebook at @USAIDEgypt.