RIYADH, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, March 21, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Canon Saudi Arabia, a subsidiary of Canon Middle East (CME) (https://bit.ly/2CrQy2s), officially opens its first office and business solutions showroom in Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA). The company was formed in partnership with Ali Zaid Al Quraishi & Brothers (AZAQ) in June 2018, and with two additional offices and showrooms in Jeddah and Khobar, will represent the largest regional B2B direct presence for Canon in the Middle East region.



The opening was attended by senior Canon executives including Mr. Stefano Zenti, Executive Vice President Developing Regions Business Group, Canon Europe and Mr. Anurag Agrawal, Managing Director, Canon Middle East and Canon Eurasia, as well as Mr. Faisal Al Quraishi, Chairman, AZAQ.



Canon believes that establishing a long-term presence in Saudi Arabia adds value to the economy by contributing to the development of a sophisticated digital infrastructure mandated by Vision 2030 to attract investors and enhance the competitiveness of the Saudi economy. Canon Saudi Arabia will further expand Canon’s business products and services across the Saudi market where there is a growing need for digital and other technology-based imaging services to support a more agile, robust, and efficient business environment.



“Canon Saudi Arabia is strategically positioned to support the nation’s ambitions of developing a competitive business environment in the region’s largest economy, which is expected to grow by 1.8 percent this year and by 2.1 percent in 2020. We have invested in the market to provide better wider coverage and deliver a holistic approach to business solutions. Whether these businesses are large corporations or small and medium enterprises, our innovative services and solutions are customisable to address the businesses’ requirements and position them as leaders in their respective industries. This drives business competency to allow for economic growth and competitiveness of Saudi-based businesses on a global scale,” said Anurag Agrawal, Managing Director Canon Middle East and Canon Eurasia.


                                Canon believes that establishing a long-term presence in Saudi Arabia adds value to the economy by contributing to the development of a sophisticated digital infrastructure
                            

In addition to supporting businesses achieve their objectives, Canon Saudi Arabia will be investing in its employees and enhancing their skills and capabilities through extensive learning and development programmes, with a focus on embracing and enhancing the talent of Saudi youth to support the country’s Saudisation drive. Through these initiatives, the company aims to grow to 300 employees by 2023.



Faisal Al Quraishi said: “The joint venture and partnership between CME and AZAQ comes as a result of a long business relationship between Canon and Al Quraishi Group that is 50 years in the making; and this development comes as natural progression of our successful business ties. AZAQ sees this partnership as a contribution to the country’s 2030 vision whereby Canon, a global brand, contributes to the Kingdom’s transformation through its innovative technologies and solutions. Furthermore, the partnership will be highly committed to train young Saudi nationals as well as advance technology in private and government sectors alike.”



Shadi Bakhour, B2B Business Unit Director Canon Middle East and General Manager, Canon Saudi Arabia, said: “According to recent reports, The Kingdom’s print market is estimated to pass the $7 billion mark in 2022, which is a testament to the growth opportunities available in this sector. Through our strategy of being closer to our customers in Saudi, we are able to meet this demand and offer services that address their challenges and creates opportunities for them. Our Managed Print Services for instance ensures efficiency, minimises downtime, and saves on costs so businesses can focus on their core offering.”

Through these showrooms, Canon will offer a complete portfolio of products along with innovative services and solutions for businesses across a wide variety of sectors. Some of the B2B solutions offered by Canon Saudi Arabia will include Managed Print services, Graphic arts solutions where customers can personalise their own environments through prints to continuous feed where we can help our customers efficiently manage high printing volumes for sectors such as education. Canon will also offer customers the opportunity to talk directly to their experts and get hands on experiences with the products and solutions.

Canon Saudi Arabia will provide businesses an efficient after-sales services and technical support in terms of speed of service delivery, availability of spare parts, technical support by highly skilled engineers, a fully outsourced logistics hub, multiple annual maintenance contract options, and other services to meet the requirements of businesses across the Kingdom.



Following Canon’s corporate philosophy of ‘Kyosei’ which means living and working together for the common good, Canon Saudi Arabia also aims to establish a strong relationship with the Saudi society through environment initiatives and community welfare programmes that give back and support various causes.