ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, March 13, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            At the invitation of the Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Mr. Abiy AHMED, the President of the French Republic, Mr. Emmanuel MACRON will pay a state visit to Ethiopia on March 12th and 13th, 2019.



This visit follows the working visit by the Prime Minister of Ethiopia to France on 19 October 2018, during which the two leaders reiterated their common determination to work for the strengthening of peace and international security as well as their wish to deepen the bilateral relationship.

They, at this occasion, reaffirmed in a joint statement their willingness to establish a privileged partnership between France and Ethiopia.
                                They, at this occasion, reaffirmed in a joint statement their willingness to establish a privileged partnership between France and Ethiopia
                            

As part of his trip to Ethiopia, the President of the French Republic will visit Lalibela with the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, following a request from Mr. Abiy Ahmed for a support from France for the preservation of the churches of Lalibela.

During this state visit, agreements will be signed in the cultural and heritage areas, the defense and the economic fields, in accordance with the commitments made in the joint statement of last October.

The President of the French Republic will also meet the President of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Ms. Sahle-Work Zewde.

On the 13th of March, Mr. Emmanuel MACRON will have a meeting with the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Mr. Moussa Faki Mahamat to discuss international and African issues. This follows up on the declaration of intention establishing a French-AUC strategic dialogue which was signed on the 8th of June 2018 by Mr. Jean-Yves Le Drian, minister of Europe and foreign affairs of France and Mr. Moussa Faki Mahamat.


1 Published on the website of the Elysée : https://www.elysee.fr/emmanuel-macron/2018/10/31/joint-declaration-between-the-prime-minister-of-the-federal-democratic-republic-of-ethiopia-and-the-president-of-the-french-republic-regarding-a-special-partnership-between-france-and-ethiopia.en