DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania, March 20, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Residents showed an amazing mobilization as Thousands attend QNETs (www.QNET.net) 2-days Absolute Living Expo in Dar es Salaam; public benefits from products and business opportunities; QNET Expo caravan sets for Kumasi, Ghana on the 23rd and 24th March.



Asian direct selling company QNET has hosted an expo of its products and services over the weekend at Mlimani City Mall in Dar es Salaam.

The 2019 QNET Expo season titled Absolute Living, in line with the direct selling company’s principles and RYTHM–Raise Yourself to Help Mankind - philosophy is held every year in different countries around the world with the aim of showcasing its products and services on ground opened in Dar es Salaam. The Expo also serves as a platform for prospective customers and other interested parties to understand QNET and its business model.

The concept of Absolute Living is a reflection of QNET’s efforts to promote a proactive approach to a healthy, well-balanced lifestyle, with a focus on health, wellness, and education.

Guest of honor Regional Commissioner for Dar es Salaam Paul Makonda said “My life story is testament of hard work and resilience and I call upon youth to be confident in pursing their dreams.”
                                Residents showed an amazing mobilization as Thousands attend QNETs 2-days Absolute Living Expo in Dar es Salaam
                            

Mr. Makonda also urged the public not to settle for anything less than their full potential as exemplified by some of QNET Independent Representatives who gave testimonies at the occasion.

Mr. Makonda and visitors witnessed first-hand inspirational testimonials from QNET Independent representatives and QNET staff aimed at showcasing attitudes, methods and opportunities embraced in order to transform and become successful in entrepreneurship.

Speaking at a media briefing Regional General Manager of QNET for sub-Saharan Africa Region, Biram Fall stated, “QNET offers a wide range of high quality products and services to our customers to help them live a well-balanced life, and also address fundamental issues such as education, awareness, and personal development through our training programs which helps them in their journey to become self-employed. From online education courses such as SELI/qLearn, to holiday packages such as Tripsavr, to energy products such as Bio Disc 3, dietary supplements like

EDGE, and watches like Bernhard H. Mayer, QNET has a comprehensive range to cater to a wide variety of needs. At the core of it all, is our desire to provide avenues for ‘Absolute Living’.

Thus, QNET offers this low-cost business opportunity to anyone interested in taking it up, irrespective of their education or experience. Tanzania is one of our most professional markets at QNET and having this expo in Dar-es-Salam is a way for us to give back to our leaders here and come closer to them.”

Thousands Independent Representatives, prospective partners and curious visitors attended   the 2-days Expo that included products samplings on site and demonstrations on the use of products and their benefits to customers and end users. In addition, business and product experts were on hand to answer questions from visitors in order to better understand QNET’s universe. Visitors attended the Expo in Dar es Salaam to learn first-hand about product, services business opportunities and CSR as showcased the E-Commerce Company of the year award win in 2018 in West Africa. This interaction also aimed to cement strong bonds within the QNET family and ignite the spirit of entrepreneurship in Tanzania and beyond.

The Dar es Salaam Expo follows a series of such successful Expos in Togo, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Senegal, Burkina Faso and Cameroon last year.

The expo caravan will stop in Kumasi, Ghana, after Dar es Salaam from 23rd to 24th March 2019 and move on to other African countries.