LONDON, United Kingdom, April 23, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Markus Soder, Minister-President of the German Free State of Bavaria led a delegation to Ethiopia this week. The delegation, which arrived on Sunday (April 14), was made up of representatives from sixty companies, and the focus of its visit was economic cooperation as well as issues of climate change and migration. It met with President Sahle-Work Zewde, government officials and representatives of the Ethiopian Chamber of Commerce and Sectoral Associations.


                                Bavaria had opened an Africa Office in Addis Ababa to foster stronger business ties and develop cooperation between Ethiopia and Bavaria
                            

At a meeting with President Sahle-Work Zewde, the Minister-President emphasized that Bavaria was very keen to strengthen its relations with Ethiopia and open up new business avenues. He noted that Bavaria had opened an Africa Office in Addis Ababa to foster stronger business ties and develop cooperation between Ethiopia and Bavaria. Welcoming the delegation at the National Palace, President Sahle-Work said the relations of Ethiopia and Germany showed excellent momentum and the visit of the Bavarian officials and business people was a sign that the relationship was going in the right direction. She said: “I am very happy to see such a high-level delegation, and is a great pleasure receiving you. There is a lot where we can work together.” The German football club Bayern Munich has opened a Football Academy in Addis Ababa, and Minister-President Markus Soder handed over a Bayern Munich’s Jersey with “Sahle-Work 1” on the back to President Sahle-Work.



At a meeting with officials on Monday, the delegation signed five Memoranda of Understanding covering various issues including the establishment of a Center for Technology Excellence aiming to enable Ethiopian youths to develop work capacities in their area of operation with the objective of job creation.