WASHINGTON D.C., United States of America, April 15, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            In coordination with the Federal Government of Somalia's continued efforts to degrade al-Shabaab, U.S. Africa Command conducted an airstrike in the vicinity of Garowle, Lower Shabelle Region, Somalia, on April 11, 2019.



Airstrikes are one part of the U.S. strategy to support Somali forces in their commitment to the Federal Government of Somalia’s advancement of economic development, governance, and their military institutions.
                                U.S. Africa Command will continue to work with its partners to transfer the responsibility for long-term security in Somalia from AMISOM to the Federal Government of Somalia
                            

"We continue to target and strike various levels of leadership within the al-Shabaab network," said Marine Corps Maj. Gen. Gregg Olson, U.S. Africa Command director of operations. "These precision strikes help sow discord within the ranks of al-Shabaab."

The Somalia National Army (SNA) and partner forces continue to increase pressure on the al-Shabaab terrorist network. These precision airstrikes support Somalia security force activities and build enhanced security conditions to allow time and space for government and economic development to occur. They directly impact al-Shabaab’s ability to carry out activities and recruitment. 

At this time, it is assessed this airstrike killed two (2) terrorists and destroyed one (1) motorcycle.

Currently, we assess no civilians were injured or killed as a result of this airstrike. Our process and procedures allow for additional information to inform post-strike analysis.   

U.S. Africa Command will continue to work with its partners to transfer the responsibility for long-term security in Somalia from AMISOM to the Federal Government of Somalia and its Member States.  In support of the Federal Government of Somalia, U.S. forces will use all effective and appropriate methods to assist in the protection of the Somali people, including partnered military counterterrorism operations with the Federal Government of Somalia, AMISOM, and Somali National Army forces.