ZURICH, Switzerland, April 18, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Today marks 50 days until the eighth edition of the FIFA Women’s World Cup™ kicks off in France, and FIFA and the Local Organising Committee (LOC) are proud to announce that ticket sales for the competition are smashing records, with over 720,000 sold so far.



The opening match of the FIFA Women’s World Cup France 2019 at Paris’ Parc de Princes is sold out, as are the two semi-finals and the final, which will all be held at the Stade de Lyon. Seats for each of these games were snapped up within 48 hours of individual match tickets going on sale.

Tickets for three group-stage fixtures – the Netherlands v. Cameroon in Valenciennes on 15 June, Nigeria v. France in Rennes on 17 June and Sweden v. the USA in Le Havre on 20 June – have also sold out in record time.

Excitement is building across the competition’s nine Host Cities of Grenoble, Le Havre, Lyon, Montpellier, Nice, Paris, Reims, Rennes and Valenciennes as the big kick-off draws closer, with Reims and Rennes staging special events to celebrate the 50-day milestone.
                                The FIFA Women’s World Cup France 2019 will take place between 7 June and 7 July
                            

Speaking about the 50-day countdown, LOC Director Erwan Le Prévost said: “Today is a symbolic date that takes us a step closer to the beginning of the competition, which kicks off on 7 June at the Parc des Princes in Paris. We are all eagerly looking forward to the start of this FIFA Women’s World Cup and ticket sales show that the French public and foreign fans feel the same way.”

FIFA’s Chief Commercial Officer, Philippe Le Floc’h, said: “The eighth edition of the FIFA Women’s World Cup will see the greatest female footballers from around the globe travel to France this summer. Ticket sales figures show that people are excited about the competition and we are looking forward to seeing the stadiums across France packed with passionate fans.”

The FIFA Women’s World Cup France 2019 will take place between 7 June and 7 July.

You can find full information about tickets on fifa.com/FIFAWWC/tickets.

Disabled people or people with limited mobility are able to apply for Special Access Tickets with a valid proof.

Visa, FIFA’s Official Payment Services Partner, is the preferred payment method for all FIFA ticket sales.