TRIPOLI, Libya, April 23, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Nearly three weeks of fighting in the Libyan capital has displaced close to 35,000 people, claimed over 200 lives, and injured more than 1,000. Further insecurity, continued displacements and large-scale humanitarian and protection needs are expected as the conflict continues to intensify.



The International Organization for Migration (IOM) has provided emergency assistance to all affected populations since hostilities began but funding shortfalls are now affecting the Organization’s ability to meet the critical needs of both migrants and the local families displaced by the fighting. 
                                Families are fleeing their homes as fighting in southern Tripoli rages
                            

"Families are fleeing their homes as fighting in southern Tripoli rages,” Othman Belbeisi, IOM Libya Chief of Mission said Tuesday. “With thousands of people running for safety every day, and more than 3,000 detained migrants who remain at high risk, immediate action is needed to provide crucial support to vulnerable civilians in Tripoli."  

IOM is appealing to the international community today for USD 4.3 million to allow for the delivery of multi-sectoral lifesaving assistance to individuals affected by the on-going conflict for the next three months. The interventions will target over 38,000 migrants and persons displaced as a direct consequence to the armed clashes.  

IOM’s request comes as part of a more comprehensive inter-agency appeal. All civilians in Tripoli and especially detained migrants, among them children and women, are at risk. 

IOM has provided non-food Items (NFIs), emergency food for detained migrants, primary health care, support for voluntary humanitarian return (VHR) and improving living conditions of detained migrants at DCIM detention centers in close coordination with humanitarian actors to ensure an effective and efficient delivery of assistance. IOM also continues to advocate for the closure of migrant detention centres. 

The ability of the IOM and its humanitarian partners to deliver assistance has been greatly enhanced by use of the Organization’s Displacement Tracking Matrix (DTM) which provides daily updates about the number and location of internally displaced people and their specific needs.