LAGOS, Nigeria, April 3, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Africa’s new media publisher, Pulse Africa (Pulse.Africa) (Nigeria (www.Pulse.ng), Ghana (www.Pulse.com.gh), Kenya (www.PulseLive.co.ke), has avowed to continue to strengthen measures to provide quality news and round-the-clock content.



In a bid to improve user experience, and enhance faster loading times across multiple devices and browsers, Pulse has recently migrated to a new publishing platform.



Speaking on the recent migration, Head of Editorial and Editor-In-Chief of Pulse Africa, Osagie Alonge says Pulse always puts the interests of their readers first.



“We pay keen attention to the interests of our readers, and constantly fine tune our interface to make experiences on the platform worthwhile. Our mission at Pulse, is to become Africa’s leading new media publisher, and we are making huge strides in this direction.” says Osagie.


                                Our mission at Pulse, is to become Africa’s leading new media publisher, and we are making huge strides in this direction
                            

Pulse’ dedication to providing researched, relevant and timely accurate news and entertainment stories was showcased in their coverage of the recently concluded Nigerian general elections.



Speaking on the elections coverage, Director of Marketing at Ringier Africa Digital Publishing, Yetunde Oyeleke, says the aim was to bring the elections to readers across various channels.



“With the recently concluded elections, our aim was to bring the elections to our readers across our channels in relevant content formats - videos, articles, infographics, polls, etc in content formats that are easy for them to consume.”



Pulse Africa is a subsidiary of Ringier Africa Digital Publishing (RADP) (RADP.Africa), a part of Ringier AG (www.Ringier.com) - Switzerland’s largest internationally active media group, with operations in Nigeria (www.Pulse.ng), Ghana (www.Pulse.com.gh), Kenya (www.PulseLive.co.ke) and Uganda (www.PulseLive.ug).



It currently operates across Sub-Saharan Africa with physical offices in English speaking African countries - Ghana (www.Pulse.com.gh), Kenya (www.PulseLive.co.ke), Nigeria (www.Pulse.ng), and an extension to Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire and other French speaking African countries as ‘Pulse Live Afrique’, with news and entertainment content delivery concentrated on social media.