BRUSSELS, Belgium, April 3, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the Africa-Europe Diaspora Development Platform (ADEPT) today joined efforts to enhance the positive contribution of migration to the areas of agricultural and rural development.



The agreement, signed in Brussels on the side-lines of the high-level event on Food and Agriculture in Times of Crises, marks the beginning of a formal collaboration in the areas of migration and rural development, with a focus on diaspora-related issues and agribusiness.

"We tend to underestimate the power of the diaspora in peace, development, humanitarian and, of course, around migration issues. We are signing this Memmorandum of Understanding with ADEPT today to work more closely together and give visibility to the potential diaspora holds, but also to what is already happening with diaspora communities," said FAO Deputy Director-General Daniel Gustafson.
                                The African diaspora is one of the key actors of this process, bringing about financial, intellectual and social contribution
                            

ADEPT President Khady Sakho Niang, who signed the agreement on behalf of her organization, said: "Migration is a development driver generating positive change at the local and international level. The African diaspora is one of the key actors of this process, bringing about financial, intellectual and social contribution. We hope the FAO-ADEPT cooperation will enable us to join energies, knowledge, networks and expertise in two interlinked areas, migration and agriculture, for the benefit of the African people and continent."

ADEPT, an international non-profit based in Belgium, supports and empowers African diaspora development organizations based within the European Union, Norway and Switzerland. While helping to formally involve African diaspora groups in development processes in Africa, it also serves as a point of reference for those interested in African development issues, migration and development policy.

Migration is closely linked to FAO's goals of fighting hunger, achieving food security, reducing rural poverty and promoting the sustainable use of natural resources. FAO's expertise in the areas of capacity development, policy support to governments and rural institutions, agribusiness, value chain and food system development naturally complements ADEPT's experience in engaging diaspora organizations around migration-related issues.

FAO and ADEPT plan to work jointly to promote awareness of the nexus of migration, agriculture and rural development, and the opportunities associated with rural migration. The organizations will also combine their technical knowledge and capacity to increase diaspora engagement, focusing on agribusiness and resource mobilization.

The activities of the partnership will contribute to the achievement of several Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), principally Goal 2: Zero Hunger, Goal 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all, Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries and Goal 17: revitalizing global partnerships for sustainable development.