DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, April 29, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Canon Central and North Africa (Canon-CNA.com), is proud to announce the next generation of uniFLOW Online – 2019.1 - enabling partners of all sizes to meet the evolving cloud requirements of their customers. Designed to address market demand for cloud-based capture and output solutions, uniFLOW Online 2019.1 offers partners the centralised management features to streamline integration, boost productivity and help businesses gain control of their costs. With easier setup than ever before and enhanced flexibility, partners have a clear opportunity to improve their offering, stand out from their competitors and reduce the time needed for service calls.  

Simple installation

Gaining accreditation is vastly simplified, with only six hours of e-learning courses to train partners on installation, user set-up and device management. With demands on time subsequently reduced, more resource can be focused on customer needs.  The Device Setup Utility function, which now fully supports eULM devices, provides a single tool which enables partners to quickly add or update devices simultaneously. Additionally, an Online Setup button removes the complexity of onboarding, by connecting users directly from the device. This enables the delivery of industry-leading device management as easily as flipping a switch. With no need for an onsite engineer, small and large enterprises alike benefit from time and resource savings. 

Improved flexibility

Partners directly benefit from an industry-leading cloud solution with minimal technical or financial demands. This is made available through three different packages; basic printing, basic scanning and advanced scanning, with different payment tiers.  Our most versatile cloud-based print and output management solution yet, uniFLOW Online 2019.1 allows customers to easily browse, print and queue documents stored in cloud services without any investment in servers or IT infrastructure. 
                                Our flexible user subscription-based payment model provides partners with a competitive pricing strategy 
                            

Somesh Adukia B2B Sales and Marketing Director, Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) said,“We’re dedicated to providing partners with robust solutions that allow them to compete in a rapidly changing landscape.With uniFLOW 2019.1, partners can deliver aversatile range of capture and output packages to support customers moving their IT infrastructure to the cloud. Our flexible user subscription-based payment model provides partners with a competitive pricing strategy and a solution which will continue to serve customers as they scale up or down.”  



Enhanced connectivity and visibility

Partners can drive productivity for their customers, thanks to the enhanced integration between cloud services, uniFLOW Online 2019.1 and Canon’s expanding multifunctional printer (MFP) line-up. Compatible with a broad range of cloud services including Dropbox, Google Drive and Microsoft OneDrive, this solution gives them access to familiar tools to facilitate simple print and scanning to the cloud. This easy to use system is designed to reduce the risk of operational error and mitigate the need for regular onsite support, giving partners more time to focus on serving customer needs. 

Partners can also demonstrate the enhanced cost benefits of uniFLOW 2019.1, thanks to the greater end-to-end management of print and document processes. Optimised for greater visibility, this update enables the delivery of valuable insights about user, department and device costs to their customers.  Advantages for the buyer also include the regulation of employee access and usage through unique department logins, which allows businesses to better budget MFP expenses and minimise waste.

“uniFLOW 2019.1 allows partners of all sizes to deliver a customisable solution, that meets customers’ evolving needs without extensive financial, technical or maintenance requirements” concluded Sean Hunt.