MANAMA, Bahrain, April 22, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Shaikh Khalid bin Ahmed bin Mohammed Al Khalifa, participated in the Extraordinary Session of the Council of the Arab League at the Ministerial Level. The meeting was held in Cairo, in the presence of President Mahmoud Abbas, who briefed the Council on the latest developments regarding the Palestinian issue, and the Israeli violations of the United Nations resolutions on settlements and sacred places in Jerusalem. 

The Minister of Foreign Affairs conveyed the greetings of His Majesty King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa to President Mahmoud Abbas, affirming the directions of His Majesty the King on supporting the alienable rights of the Palestinian people. 

The Minister also hailed the commitment of the Palestinian leadership and people to achieve peace based on the Arab Peace Initiative 2002 and the relevant legitimacy resolutions. He reiterated the Kingdom's solidarity with the the Palestinian people to achieve their legitimate rights. 
                                The statement warned of the danger of the Israeli approach that adopts racist laws to legitimize the settlement system and apartheid,
                            

A concluding statement was issued stressing that the Arab countries that introduced the Arab Peace Initiative, established on the basis of international law, international legitimacy resolutions and the principle of land for peace, will not accept any plan or agreement that does not go in line with the said principles. It also added that in order to achieve lasting and comprehensive peace in the Middle East, the Palestinian rights must be restored, including the rights to self-determination, establishing their independent sovereign state on the borders of 4 June, 1967 with East Jerusalem as the capital, the return and compensation of refugees in line with resolution 194 and the Arab Peace Initiative, and the release of prisoners. In this regard, the Council affirmed its support to the peace plan submitted by President Mahmoud Abbas before the Security Council in 2018.

The statement also asserted the commitment of Arab states to take all the necessary measures to protect the occupied East Jerusalem, the capital of Palestine, and preserving its Arab identity and sacred Islamic and Christian sites against the Israeli occupying practices and in the face of any decision recognizing it as the capital of Israel. 

The statement called upon the international community to implement the Security Council resolution 2334 against the Israeli occupying settlement, protect the Palestinian civilians according to the General Assembly resolution 10/20 (2018), and supporting the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). 

The statement warned of the danger of the Israeli approach that adopts racist laws to legitimize the settlement system and apartheid, including the law that allowed the Israeli government to steal the allowances of Palestinian martyrs and prisoners from Palestinian tax revenues.

The statement affirmed the commitment of the Arab states to support the budget of Palestine and to implement the decision of the summit of Tunisia to activate a financial safety net of $100 million a month, to support Palestine to meet its political and financial pressures. 

The statement stressed the respect of Arab countries for the legitimacy of the Palestine Liberation Organization as the sole and legitimate representative of the Palestinian people, led by President Mahmoud Abbas. It called on the Palestinian factions and forces to speed up national reconciliation and enable the Palestinian government to fully assume its responsibilities in the Gaza Strip as soon as possible. 

The statement also charged the Arab Peace Initiative Committee to follow up on the developments of the issue.