OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso, April 9, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The United States Government, through the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), announced the launch of the second phase of the Resilience in the Sahel Enhanced (RISE) program in Burkina Faso. Through this program, the United States intends to commit more than $190 million (CFA F 111 billion) over five years to help the most vulnerable Burkinabe build resilience to climate and other shocks and permanently escape poverty.  United States Ambassador to Burkina Faso, Mr. Andrew Young; Minister of Agriculture and Hydro-Agricultural Resources, Mr. Salifou Ouedraogo; and USAID Mission Director for the Sahel, Ms. Lisa Franchett officially launched the project.


                                USAID’s RISE activities have helped individuals, communities, and governments in Burkina Faso to better manage crises
                            

“The launch of the second phase of the Resilience in the Sahel Enhanced program is a testament to the commitment of the United States Government to sustainably support the Government of Burkina Faso in its vision to improve the lives of the country’s most vulnerable people,” Ambassador Young said.

The RISE program is a regional approach conceived in 2012 by USAID as a response to a historical pattern of severe droughts and other issues in the Sahel region of Africa. Over the past five years, USAID’s RISE activities have helped individuals, communities, and governments in Burkina Faso to better manage crises, pursue a diverse range of job opportunities, feed their families, and invest in their futures.

The new phase of the RISE program broadens USAID’s collaboration with the Government of Burkina Faso to help it better meet the needs of its citizens and make progress on Burkina Faso’s journey to self-reliance. USAID activities will aim to create better access to water and other natural resources, promote business development and opportunities to engage in growing markets, improve health outcomes, strengthen community and national health systems, strengthen effective governance at all levels, and empower women and youth to be a force for positive change in their communities.