CAPE TOWN, South Africa, April 15, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The ROAM Group (ROAM.africa) strengthens its executive team and announces a key leadership appointment. Mr. Ravi Mehra joined the company as “Head of Cars”, responsible for the growth and operations for the company’s car classifieds across the continent, from April 2019.





Mr. Mehra previously was President Auctions at CarTrade.com, India’s leading online auto classifieds platform, serving as a marketplace for users interested in buying and selling new and used vehicles. Key achievements include to seed and scale India’s leading vehicle auction and valuation platform Cartradeexchange. He also served as Director on Board on Carwale.com and Adroit Technical.
                                Ravi’s unique ability to operate with passion and success off the beaten track is outstanding
                            



ROAM is the largest and leading classifieds and online marketplaces company across SubSahara, united in the mission to become Africa’s most user-centric company. Included in its portfolio of 16 businesses are the leading online auto classifieds in East and West Africa. The company owns and operates leading cars cheki.co.ke, cheki.com.gh, cheki.com.ng as well as the car imports business timamcars.co.ke. In his new capacity, Mr. Mehra leads the strategic expansion of the cars vertical. He also joins the group’s Executive Committee. 



Clemens Weitz, CEO of ROAM comments on the appointment: “Ravi’s unique ability to operate with passion and success off the beaten track is outstanding. He has tremendous experience in cars marketplaces in emerging markets. He has a great track record in one country, and now we’re looking forward to transforming value chains across an entire continent.”



Ravi Mehra adds to his appointment: “I am super excited about joining a great team in ROAM and in helping to cement our vision of providing the best car buying and selling experience on the African continent. The African car buying experience is inherently intransparent, and leaves a lot to desire for car buyers. Cheki is a well known and established brand, with huge potential to create tangible value and easen the car buying process.”