TRIPOLI, Libya, April 12, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Overview of Key Developments:



Over a week into the eruption of clashes in Tripoli, displacement numbers appear to be rapidly increasing and a significant number of families who require evacuations cannot be reached:

9,500+ individuals have been displaced since the onset of fighting. This includes the movement of some 3,500 additional individuals in the last 24 hours.

8 in 10 families who requested their evacuation from conflict-affected areas could not be evacuated to comparatively safer areas, due to ongoing hostilities and access blockages.
                                Displacement numbers increased by 60 per cent from 10 to 11 April
                            

Fighting has led to at least seven civilian fatalities, including three medical staff, and ten civilian injuries. At least five ambulances have been hit since the onset of conflict.

$190m is needed to meet the funding requirement of the 2019 HRP. In light of the rapidly unfolding situation, additional funding is urgently needed.

Key Concerns:

UPSURGE IN DISPLACEMENT: Displacement numbers increased by 60 per cent from 10 to 11 April. Individuals in collective shelters in areas now closer to the frontlines are at risk of secondary displacement.

TRAPPED CIVILIANS: The humanitarian community remains severely concerned for the safety and security of civilians stuck in conflict-affected areas in the outskirts of Tripoli. Requests for evacuations to safer areas in Tripoli were received from some 3,800 individuals, of whom only some 550 people could be evacuated to date. This means that roughly 8 out of 10 requests for evacuations cannot be completed. This is due to ongoing conflict, and the indiscriminate and possibly deliberate targeting of first responders.

PROTECTION OF CIVILIANS AND HEALTHCARE: Under IHL, civilians must be protected from attack and the impact of conflict, and must have unhindered access to medical facilities and humanitarian assistance.
The Health Sector has verified reports of at 7 civilian fatalities, including 3 medical staff, and 5 ambulances coming under attack. Reports continue to be received of first responders to be unable to access the PiN.