LAGOS, Nigeria, April 1, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (Canon-CNA.com) a leader in imaging solutions, has signed a 3 year partnership agreement with Yaba College of Technology (Yabatech) (YABATECH.edu.ng) to support students in their professional development by conducting print workshop training with Canon specialists. 





The partnership with Yabatech is an extension of Canon’s Miraisha Sustainability Programme. The initiative, launched in late 2014, aims to build the capacity and talent of people in the African countries in which Canon operates by leveraging the company’s imaging heritage, advanced technological strengths and innovations.



The programme aims to improve the knowledge of digital printing and related technical skills of 80 Nigerian students specializing in this sector. The first activity to be run under this partnership is speciality training that will last one week and will be conducted by a professional print manager from Canon. The theme of this training will be colour management and will alternate between practical and theoretical courses. It will enable students to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to understand and manage colour parameters in digital documents and printing, which will allow them to further improve the quality of printing and offer an ever more qualitative service to their future customers.



The main goal of this partnership is to support students in their training and facilitate their professional integration in the industry by offering access to professional machines and a space for meetings and experience with experts. With the third-largest youth population in the world and a median age standing at about 18 years, Nigeria's development is dependent  on its youth. Indeed, over 70 percent of the country’s population is under the age of 30 according United Nations (2015). It is important that students receive the necessary training to be able to succeed and support the economic development of the country.
                                Canon is a trusted partner in the transformational growth of Africa
                            



Roman Troedthandl, Managing Director CCNA, said, “During our collaboration with the prestigious College, Yabatech, we will provide a platform to develop the printing skills and give new opportunities to students. This will be achieved by providing them with innovative tools, practices and modern – skills necessary for proactive participation in the economy. Indeed, the training workshop will offer unparalleled prospects for graduates to broaden their horizons and take advantage of employment opportunities that support this remarkable population growth. “



Dr. Adeyemi Kunle, the Dean of School of Arts, Design& Printing YABATECH added “I am very delighted that my students from the school of Arts, Design & Printing, Yaba College of Technology can benefit from training provided by Canon's experts in the professional printing industry. It is an opportunity for the students to access enhanced training to develop their skills and interact with professionals who, in addition to a solid knowledge of the sector, have a clear idea of the industry needs in Nigeria. Canon is a trusted partner in the transformational growth of Africa. By investing in youth, creating tangible opportunities for career development and promoting the printing industry through innovative solutions, Canon creates a vibrant growth ecosystem in Nigeria and the Continent”



Through Canon’s corporate philosophy of `Kyosei,’ meaning ‘living and working together for the common good,’ the company continues to maintain its strong growth and prosperity in the region with new business initiatives while also promoting its CSR activities.



To date, through the Miraisha Sustainability Programme, Canon has trained more than 4,000 students on photography skills and upskilled over 20 printing businesses. We are also the proud recipient of a certificate of appreciation from the Kano State Professional Photographers Association in Nigeria (KASPPAN).