KAMPALA, Uganda, April 17, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The British High Commission’s (BHC) Post project budget is aimed at projects that will improve bilateral links between Uganda and the UK and support the UK’s foreign policy priorities in Uganda.



Our priority areas for project funding this year are:

strengthening the rules-based international system (including institutions)
ending sexual violence in conflict including ending stigma towards victims
human rights and democracy (concept should include rights for all vulnerable and minority groups)

Budgets

project cap should not exceed UGX 98,000,000 to be spent by the end of February 2020 and activities completed by March 2020. Implementers must have spent 90% of their total budget by December 2019
all project budgets must be presented in Uganda shillings
projects should have a clear purpose, demonstrate realistic outputs and represent value for money
                                Projects should have a clear purpose, demonstrate realistic outputs and represent value for money
                            

What will the BHC projects budget not fund?

school fees, research or base line studies
core running costs, (eg. salaries, utilities, rent, transport, etc)
private commercial businesses, (eg. piggeries, poultry and other similar ventures)
micro-finance/loan schemes

Please do not apply for funding for any of the above.

Reporting and monitoring

Once a project concept has been approved, a full project concept form (ODT, 16.6KB) should be completed making a case for the funding of the project. The bid form should contain documentary evidence of any assertions made by the implementers about the intended area of work. Periodic reports will be required from all funded projects and should include full financial accounts for the money used. Original receipts must be submitted for any project expenditure. Physical checks will be made on all on going projects. We expect 70% spend by end of October, 90% spend by December and 100% spend by end of February.

A completion report will be required usually within one month of the end of the project. Final payments will only be made after this has been submitted and approved.

Note: Money is paid out 3 months in arrears after verification of receipts and expenses. Implementers are therefore expected to deliver activities and claim reimbursement every 3 months.

The window for bids will be from 23rd April through to 7th of May 2019. All proposals should be submitted to leah.sepuya@fco.gov.uk