ACCRA, Ghana, January 29, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Merck Foundation (www.Merck-Foundation.com), the philanthropic arm of Merck KGaA Germany announces the Call for Application of “Merck More Than a Mother” Fashion Awards in partnership with H.E. REBECCA AKUFO-ADDO, The First Lady of Ghana, together with Accra Technical Institute and College of Creative Design.



The applicants are requested to send the sketches of their creations as an attachment on email: info@merck-foundation.com.

The closing date for applications is 30th of June 2019.

“No designer has ever, or would ever, say that he or she wanted to make things difficult for women. Fashion industry has already got enough flakes for being superficial. Let’s change this perception and create a meaningful fashion trend aiming to educate our communities that ‘Fertility is a Shared Responsibility’. I love fashion and I strongly believe that we will be able to select a creative design or designs that Men and/or Women would be proud to wear to show their contribution toward breaking the infertility stigma in their communities, villages, cities, across Africa and the rest of the world” emphasized Dr. Rasha Kelej, CEO of Merck Foundation and President of Merck More Than a Mother. 



All Fashion Design Students from both colleges are invited to create a design with the aim to deliver strong and influential messages to empower infertile women and say, “No to Infertility Stigma”.



“Designers it’s time to showcase your talent and contribute towards making a difference in society with your unique creations.” Dr. Rasha Kelej added.



The best 10 submissions will be selected by ‘Merck More Than a Mother’ committee. Winners will be granted $500 each to execute their designs and will have an opportunity to exhibit them during the Merck Africa Asia Luminary which will be conducted in Ghana on the 29th and 30th of October in presence of more than 15 African First Ladies and 1000 participants from more than 60 countries.



Merck Foundation plans to scale up this initiative in many more African Countries.
                                Let’s change this perception and create a meaningful fashion trend aiming to educate our communities that ‘Fertility is a Shared Responsibility’
                            



Merck Foundation has been empowering many infertile women in Ghana by building a productive life for them by setting up businesses of their choice for them, as women are much more than just mothers.



Merck Foundation has also provided technical training to four candidates from Ghana under their ‘Merck Africa Embryology Training Program’ to help build capacity in the field of infertility in the country. The program will be scaled up under the umbrella of the long term partnership with the First Lady of Ghana.



Who can apply?

Fashion design students from Ghana



Last date of submission:

Entries can be submitted till 30th June 2019.



How to apply? 

Entries can be submitted via email to info@merck-foundation.com.

Subject line of the mail should mention: Merck Foundation Fashion Awards