REDWOOD CITY, United States of America, December 5, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Makro announced today shoppers at its 22 South African outlets and busy online store will now experience instant customer care and service by directly connecting with the retailer on WhatsApp. Impressive features available in Makro’s chat offering include tracking orders, viewing current catalogues, accessing a digital store card, locating nearby stores, and having frequently asked questions (FAQs) instantly answered in chat on WhatsApp.



Makro receives numerous customer enquiries daily, and a chat channel on WhatsApp was the obvious solution to provide accessible and seamless customer communication.
                                Customers will now access the information they want, when they want it, without having to endure a lengthy phone call or escalate potential queries
                            

“Customers will now access the information they want, when they want it, without having to endure a lengthy phone call or escalate potential queries,” said Kerry Ho, Makro’s head of digital marketing. Lazo Karapanagiotidis, Makro’s head of digital innovation, added “This bold step towards the future of customer service ensures customers have the best experience on their own terms. The addition and implementation of exciting functions in WhatsApp aligns with Makro’s mission to help our customers fulfil their aspiration of living better lives, running better businesses, and saving time and money.”

Makro's Intelligent Assistant (iA) was developed by Feersum Engine, a product that allows brands to connect with their consumers on the device of their choice. Feersum Engine's human-centered approach enables the company to constantly improve the Makro user experience and add features to the messaging service on WhatsApp.

To enable WhatsApp integration, Makro worked with global chat commerce leader Clickatell (Clickatell.com), known for pioneering commerce in the chat space and responsible for many industry firsts.

“Retail currently is one of the most competitive environments and ensuring customer satisfaction must be the number one priority for business leaders in this sector. The Makro team already has shown themselves to be trailblazers, ensuring they can meet and engage with their customers on the platforms of their choice,” said Clickatell founder and CEO Pieter de Villiers. “Digital transformation will ensure sustainable growth, and we are looking forward to developing our partnership with Makro as they continue on this exciting path.” 

Customers can connect with Makro directly on WhatsApp by adding 0860 300 999 as a WhatsApp contact, scanning the QR code below, or via this link bit.ly/2LoNB78.