WASHINGTON D.C., United States of America, February 18, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            EVENT:



Please join us on at 08:30 Eastern (13:30 UTC) on February 21, 2019 for an online video press briefing with the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, Ambassador David Hale. Under Secretary Hale will discuss his recent travel to Africa and U.S. Africa policy.

Broadcast-quality video and audio files will be made available for clipping in media reports at the conclusion of the briefing.



DETAILS:

Speaker: David Hale, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs

Date: February 21, 2019

Time: 08:30 ET | 13:30 UTC | 15:30 SAST

Language: English; French, Portuguese, and Arabic interpretation available by phone

Ground rules: ON THE RECORD
                                He is a recipient of the Distinguished Service Award, a Presidential Rank Award of Meritorious Service, and several Department Superior and Meritorious Honor awards
                            

Interpretation: Simultaneous French, Portuguese, and Arabic interpretation will be available.

RSVP: RSVP via Eventbrite.  



LOGISTICS: 


	Participants should join the conference 10 minutes early. 
	Questions may be left in advance in English, French, Portuguese, or Arabic. Please note that advance questions may not appear immediately in the question queue due to moderation settings. Advance questions can also be submitted via e-mail to LiveAtState@State.gov.
	Participants can “up-vote” one another’s questions on com to indicate interest in seeing a specific question answered.
	If you experience technical difficulties, you may email LiveAtState@state.gov to alert the moderator to any issues.




BIO:

David Hale
Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs

David Hale took the oath of office as Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs on August 30, 2018.

Previously, he was the Ambassador to Pakistan (2015-18), Ambassador to Lebanon (2013-15), Special Envoy for Middle East Peace (2011-2013), Deputy Special Envoy (2009-11), and Ambassador to Jordan (2005-8). Earlier, he had multiple tours in Jordan and Lebanon and served in Tunisia, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and at the U.S. Mission to the UN.

In Washington, Hale was Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Israel, Egypt and the Levant (2008-9) and Director for Israel-Palestinian Affairs (2001-3). He held several staff posts, including Executive Assistant to Secretary of State Albright.

Hale joined the Foreign Service in 1984 and holds the rank of Career Ambassador. He is a recipient of the Distinguished Service Award, a Presidential Rank Award of Meritorious Service, and several Department Superior and Meritorious Honor awards.

He speaks Arabic, is a graduate of Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service, and a native of New Jersey.