ACCRA, Ghana, July 22, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The Kofi Annan International Peacekeeping Training Centre (KAIPTC) (KAIPTC.org) in collaboration with the Federal Government of Germany and the Government of Norway will organize the Kofi Annan Peace and Security (KAPS) Forum to facilitate discussions on evolving trends in peace and security in Africa.



Scheduled for 4 -5 September this year in Accra, Ghana, the Kofi Annan Peace and Security (KAPS) Forum is a flagship annual event designed to bring together political leaders, diplomats and experts to dialogue and share ideas on the most critical evolving peace and security trends on the African continent. The theme for the forum is ‘Peace Operations in the Context of Violent Extremism in Africa.’

The forum also seeks to deepen the collaboration between KAIPTC and international organisations such as the United Nations, African Union, Regional Economic Communities, Governments, development partners, civil society organisations and the business community.
                                The main rationale behind this forum is to honour the memory of the late HE Kofi Annan, the former Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN)
                            

The forum will be held under the Distinguished patronage of H.E. Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, President of the Republic of Ghana and the Chairmanship of HE Dr. Mohamed Ibn Chambas, Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General and Head of the UN Office for West Africa and Sahel (UNOWAS).

Speaking at the media briefing, the Commandant of the Centre, Air Vice Marshall Griffiths Evans explained the purpose for the forum; “The main rationale behind this forum is to honour the memory of the late HE Kofi Annan, the former Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN)”.

Commenting on one outstanding feature of the forum, he added; “our forum will be a working forum and we will ensure that when recommendations are made, they are followed through until progress is reported”.

Speaking at the media briefing, HE Hans-Helge Sander, Deputy German Ambassador to Ghana noted that; “This Forum will provide an excellent occasion to discuss collective actions on how to strengthen a proactive international and continental effort to prevent and effectively counter violent extremism in Africa”.

The Ambassador also briefed the media on Germany’s long-standing and strong support to KAIPTC through the provision of Police and Military Advisors as well as a GIZ support mission. “Because of the already existing support the German government offers, we are delighted to support KAIPTC´s maiden edition of the “Kofi Annan Peace and Security” Forum in Accra”, he affirmed.

The Kofi Annan Forum will bring together two hundred high-level delegates including former African presidents and diplomats from governmental and intergovernmental organizations (including the African Union and its Regional Economic Communities, United Nations and European Union). Security professionals and representatives from policy and research think tanks, development partners, training institutions and civil society groups have been invited and are expected to attend the forum.