PARIS, France, May 22, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            More than 1-billion people in over 180 countries use WhatsApp to stay in touch with friends and family, anytime and anywhere. It is this very reason that has driven Wari (www.Wari.com) to integrate with the WhatsApp Business solution to enable customers – through strategic partnerships - to request its financial services around the world on WhatsApp.



On WhatsApp, Wari customers will be able to easily request access to frequently used services and request to initiate financial operations that include:




	
	Opening an Account,
	
	
	Topping-Up Balances,
	
	
	Sending and Receiving Money,
	
	
	Purchasing of Airtime as well as Payment of Bills.
	




The introduction of MyWari (http://bit.ly/2YIpKE0) on WhatsApp provides customers the convenience to transact and communicate directly as well as easily carry out all their operations. This Wari service on WhatsApp is currently available in the following languages: (French, English, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese) with Russian and Arabic coming soon. This will allow Wari to cater to a broader customer base with the aim of enhancing the user experience across different continents and languages.



In addition, Wari’s financial services availability on WhatsApp will enable millions of consumers to request to initiate financial transactions, regardless of where they may be located in the world.
                                We are always aiming to create a standard to interconnect people in all countries and to make financial inclusion a reality
                            



"We have been working for several months to globalise our platform through strategic acquisitions and partnerships on all continents. We are always aiming to create a standard to interconnect people in all countries and to make financial inclusion a reality, thus building tomorrow’s world," says Kabirou Mbodje, Wari President and CEO.



The Wari WhatsApp business solution is appropriately aligned with Wari's ambitions to offer its customers innovative experiences through intuitive interfaces. Furthermore, it places Wari in a great position in the digital, social integration space on the international stage.



Mbodje says that plans to expand the digital offering have always been on the cards. “We are steadily and decisively pursuing our development of wide-ranging services and distribution channels,” he adds.



This offering on WhatsApp is allowing Wari to position itself as a pioneer in the digital world while pursuing its global development. “This new partnership with WhatsApp further confirms our strategic goal of ensuring our key services are accessible to the masses through a digital evolution,” concludes Mbodje.