DUBLIN, Ireland, May 1, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Their Excellencies, the Ambassador of the Republic of Colombia, the Ambassador of the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Ambassador of Peru and the Ambassador of the Republic of South Africa presented their Letters of Credence to the President at Áras an Uachtaráin today.





H.E. Ms. Patricia Cortés Ortiz, Ambassador of the Republic of Colombia was accompanied by her spouse, Mr. Jaime Camargo Suárez and her daughter, Ms. Aleksa Camargo Cortés and Mr. Andrés Echeverri, Deputy Chief of Mission.



H.E. Mr. Khaled Wafik Ismail Sarwat, Ambassador of the Arab Republic of Egypt was accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Dalia Farid and three sons Omar, Ali and Ismail, and Mr. Sherief Sharly Malaty, Deputy Chief of Mission.



H.E. Ms. Ana Maria Liliana Sanchez Vargas de Rios, Ambassador of Peru was accompanied by her daughter Ms. Mariana Ríos, and Minister Alberto Gonzales, Deputy Head of Mission.


                                H.E. Mr. Khaled Wafik Ismail Sarwat, Ambassador of the Arab Republic of Egypt was accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Dalia Farid and three sons Omar
                            

H.E. Ms. Yolisa Maya, Ambassador of the Republic of South Africa was accompanied by her spouse, Mr. Zandisile Pase, her three sons, Sandisiwe Maya, Yandisa Pase and Vuyo Maya and Mr Willem Geerlings, Counsellor (Political) at the South African Embassy.



Minister for Children and Youth Affairs, Ms Katherine Zappone, T.D., represented the Government at the ceremony.



The following were also present:  Mr. Art O’Leary, Secretary General to the President; Col. Liam Condon, Aide-de-Camp to the President; H.E. Barbara Jones, Irish Ambassador to Mexico and Peru and DFAT Regional Coordinator for Latin America; Mr. Feilim McLaughlin, Mr. Joe Brennan, Mr. Patrick O’Reilly and Ms. Marylee Wall, Protocol, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.



The Ambassadors were accompanied to and from Áras an Uachtaráin by an Escort of Honour consisting of a motorcycle detachment drawn from the 2 Cavalry Squadron, Cathal Brugha Barracks, Dublin, under the command of Lieutenant Brian O’Shea.



A Guard of Honour was provided at Áras an Uachtaráin by the Air Corps, Baldonnel, Co. Dublin, under the command of Second Lieutenant Stephen Best. 



Captain Fergal Carroll conducted the Army No. 1 Band, Cathal Brugha Barracks, Dublin.