LUSAKA, Zambia, May 13, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            The Zambia u20 National Rugby Team held on to a slender 14-12 slender score line to clinch their maiden Barthes’ Group C trophy against hosts Uganda at Kampala's Kyandondo Rugby Club. One try by Red Arrows Rugby winger George Mwamba plus 3 penalties was all Zambia needed to lay claim to a trophy that has eluded them in the Country's rugby history.





Zambia now joins Tunisia, Ivory Coast and fellow Southern Africans Zimbabwe in the 2020 edition of Group B Junior championships.



Uganda's game against Zambia was expected to be bitterly contested from the word go but it wasn't to be, much to the disappointment of local fans and spectators. The visitors registered their intentions with an 11-nil scoreline at halftime, however, the hosts responded with a vicious comeback from the break which almost saw them  carrying the day.
                                When the final whistle blew, it was Zambia who had carried the day with a minimal but meaningful win of 14-12
                            



When the final whistle blew, it was Zambia who had carried the day with a minimal but meaningful win of 14-12.



The Zambia Rugby Union President has since congratulated the team for the victory recorded. He said "When seeking re-election earlier this year we made a commitment to ensure the Programmes, Strategies and Measures aimed at Zambia's continued presence at Regional, Continental and International Tournaments are enhanced. We are always glad to report success to our Councillors, Fans and the Country as a whole, this trophy and achievement is dedicated to our sponsors Country Choice Chicken, Namibian Breweries, Mopani Copper Mines, Manzi Valley, to name but a few". 



He added that a number of individuals had also done a lot to ensure camping, transport, feeding and other logistical support were taken care of. 



"Our sport has been making very good headlines over the past couple of years and a number of individuals and organizations have done alot to make this possible, today we celebrate and appreciate them by dedicating this trophy to them" the ZRU President concluded.