LAGOS, Nigeria, May 10, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            In a bid to continuously provide world class services to clients, the company has assembled a team of creative strategists - content creators, developers and managers, who update their skills and knowledge regularly with up-to-date industry trends and tools so as to offer top notch advisory and executions to clients.





Ringier Digital Marketing (RDM) (https://RDM.africa/) is Ringier Africa's complete digital partner, which combines media, marketing and technology to support businesses in their digital endeavours to be able to boost brand equity and provide them with 360 degree digital-first marketing and digital enterprise solutions.



The company, which physically operates in Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria and Senegal, provides a portfolio of 360 degree Digital Marketing Solutions and transformation with offerings such as Animation (2D & 3D), Content Strategy & Production, Creative Strategy, Corporate Training Classes, Display Advertising, Email Newsletter Marketing, Event Coverage, Graphic Designs, Paid Marketing, Public Relations & Communications, Web/Mobile/App Development, Search Engine Marketing, Search Engine Optimisation, SMS Management, Social Media Management, Video Scripting & Production.


                                We see our clients’ brands as extensions of our own
                            

On how they relate with the brands they service, Director of Account Management at Ringier Africa Digital Publishing, Temi Williams-Davies says, “Our services are tailored in a manner that ensures that digital solutions can be offered to every brand, regardless of the size or nature of the business. We provide a dedicated service to each of our clients, ensuring that they handle our clients like kings, like they are the ‘only’ ones we have”.



Shola Adegbuyi, Director of Operations at RADP said, “We see our clients’ brands as extensions of our own. That way, we ensure to pay attention to every intricate detail and create solutions to tackle their digital marketing needs. That is what drives us to give value to businesses as we do”. 

Some of the brands they currently service include Heineken, Nigerian Breweries, Nestle Nigeria, British Council, Reckitt Benckiser, Samsung amongst others.



Ringier Digital Marketing (RDM) is a subsidiary of Ringier Africa Digital Publishing (RADP), which is owned by Ringier AG, a Swiss family-owned business with over 180 years of media experience, which entered the African market in 2011.



You can follow Ringier Digital Marketing (RDM) on LinkedIn (https://bit.ly/2WCx5Eq), Instagram (https://bit.ly/2ButoVW), Facebook (https://bit.ly/309WwiB0) and Twitter (https://bit.ly/2LOnuJR)