NAIROBI, Kenya, May 6, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            This year’s Africa Shared Value Summit (www.AfricaSharedValueSummit.com) will bring business changemakers and thought leaders together in Nairobi on 23-24 May 2019. Speakers drawn from across the African continent make for an exciting programme, featuring tracks focusing on Africa’s most important industries: agriculture, manufacturing, infrastructure, energy, the environment and health care.



“Shared Value is the next major evolution of business thinking that will drive productivity and competitive advantage in the global economy,” noted Mark Kramer and Prof. Michael Porter in one of their foundational Harvard Business Review articles on Shared Value. The Summit will see acclaimed Harvard economist Kramer return as keynote speaker. Mark is Co-Founder and Managing Director of FSG and the author of influential publications on Shared Value, catalytic philanthropy, collective impact, strategic evaluation, and impact investing.


                                Shared Value is the next major evolution of business thinking that will drive productivity and competitive advantage in the global economy
                            

With over 30 years of commercial experience in the telecommunications sector, Robert “Bob” Collymore, CEO of headline Summit sponsor Safaricom, has made it his mission to drive access to essential services through technology. “We cannot succeed in isolation,” he wrote in the 2018 Safaricom Sustainable Business Report, underlining the relevance of the Summit’s theme, Africa’s Business Growth – Grounded in Collaboration. “We need a ‘coalition of the willing’ to address these challenges.”



LADOL CEO Dr Amy Jadesimi, named Africa’s Young CEO of the Year 2018 by the Africa Leadership Forum, will be delivering the closing plenary at the Summit on 24 May, just one of the many female business leaders on the Summit’s diverse programme. In addition to her work at LADOL, an oil and gas fabrication and multi-logistics service based in Nigeria, she is passionate about the development of strategic infrastructure that will enable African countries to become leading global economies.



Shared Value thinking – the ability to see the business opportunity in driving the creation of a better world through the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals – is key to Africa becoming the economic powerhouse of the twenty-first century. To see more of the 2019 speaker line-up – and for all booking information – visit the Summit website www.AfricaSharedValueSummit.com. The Summit is proudly sponsored by Safaricom, Old Mutual, Enel, Absa, KCB, JCDecaux and the World Food Programme, and supported by media partners Channel Africa, CNBC Africa and SAfm.