BANJUL, Gambia, May 1, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            The United States Embassy Banjul is pleased to announce the annual competition for the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program open to Gambians.



The Fellowship is a one-year program to study at a leading U.S. university, offered to young and mid-career professionals who have a proven track record of leadership and a commitment to public service.  Candidates must have the capacity to take full advantage of a self-defined program of independent, non-degree, study.  The program awards a certificate from the U.S. Government; it is not designed to deliver an advanced degree.

Interested applicants can begin online applications here:  https://apply.iie.org/huberthhumphrey.  Applications will close on Friday, August 30, 2019.

The Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program brings accomplished professionals at a midpoint in their careers to the United States for a year of graduate-level academic course work and professional development activities. The Humphrey Program was initiated in 1978 to honor the memory and accomplishments of the late Senator and Vice President, Hubert H. Humphrey.  Fellows are selected on their potential for leadership and commitment to public service.

The program provides a basis for establishing lasting ties between citizens of the United States and their professional counterparts in other countries, fostering an exchange of knowledge and mutual understanding throughout the world.

Fellowships are granted competitively to professional candidates with a commitment to public service in either the public or private sector.

Eligible Fields/Sectors:

Sustainable Development
                                Fellows are selected on their potential for leadership and commitment to public service
                            


	Agricultural and rural development
	Economic development
	Finance and banking
	Natural resources, environmental policy, and climate change
	Urban and regional planning




Democratic Institution Building


	Communications/journalism
	Law and human rights
	Public policy analysis and public administration
	Trafficking in persons policy and prevention
	Technology policy and management
	Human resource management




Education


	Educational administration, planning and policy
	Higher education administration
	Teaching of English as a foreign language




Public Health


	Public health policy and management
	HIV/AIDS policy and prevention
	Substance abuse education, treatment and prevention




To be eligible for a Humphrey Fellowship, applicants must have:


	A first university degree
	Five years of full-time, professional experience
	Demonstrated leadership qualities and a record of public service
	Demonstrated English language ability
	Limited prior experience in the U.S.




The Humphrey Fellowship provides international travel, tuition and university fees, accident/sickness coverage, monthly maintenance allowance, and funding for books and professional activities. The Humphrey Program does not provide financial support for accompanying dependents.

All applications must be submitted via the application portal (https://apply.iie.org/huberthhumphrey).  We will NOT accept paper applications delivered to the U.S. Embassy or sent via email.