MARRAKESH, Morocco, May 2, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Yuichi Ishizuka, President and CEO of Canon Europe Middle East and Africa (EMEA) (Canon-CNA.com), a global provider of imaging technologies and services, visited Morocco as part of a regional tour of Africa. 





The visit reaffirms, once again, Canon’s commitment to North Africa, which is a key focus market for the company’s future business development plan. Morocco is part of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA), a Regional Sales Organization which was formed in 2016, as a strategic step to enhance Canon’s operations within Africa and strengthen its in-country presence.  



Morocco is a key market within CCNA as it represents one of the important economies in the region, with World Bank forecasting the economic growth will stabilize around an average of 3.6 percent over the medium term. In the next two years, Canon aims to enhance its presence in the Office automation industry by promoting both ranges of volume and value multi-function printers (MFPs).


                                Morocco has a growing young population, who use image technology in all aspects of their daily lives
                            

Canon has been represented in Morocco since 2009 through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the country. Canon offers a comprehensive range of input-to-output solutions, from world-renowned cameras to innovative printers and multi-function printers.



While the Head of Government of Morocco, Saâd Dine El Otmani, is betting on digital transformation to make a qualitative leap forward in economic development, Canon wishes to be part of this by bringing innovations and digital technologies to the region. Indeed, imaging technologies are an integral part of this digital transformation as they ensure quick, seamless, efficient and cost-effective operations. They also drive the integration of emerging markets into the global economy and enhance their competitiveness. 







"Canon products are designed and developed to inspire our customers and support them in their imaging process. With the enhancement of our local distribution network, supported by local Canon employees in-country, we are increasing our presence in the Moroccan market that will help meet our customers' expectations. Morocco has a growing young population, who use image technology in all aspects of their daily lives, whether in the workplace or as a hobby, and we want our products to meet their expectations even better," said Yuichi.



Canon aims to leverage its strong distribution network, including Disway, Disty, LTS Network, CBI, and Arkeos,to help Moroccan companies seize the opportunities created by the Morocco Digital 2020 strategy. The main objectives of the strategy are: to stimulate e-government services; promote the diffusion of ICT use amongst Moroccan households; position Morocco as a digital hub in French-speaking Africa; enable the development of high value-added BPO services; and focus on human resources to increase the country's regional competitiveness and growth potential.