LONDON, United Kingdom, May 13, 2019/APO Group/ --
                                                        
                            Foreign Minister Osman Saleh headed an Eritrean delegation, which included Presidential Adviser Yemane Gebreab, on a three-day working visit to China at the end of last week. Foreign Minister Osman and Presidential Adviser Yemane met a number of government officials and heads of enterprises during their visit and held talks with Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday (May 6) in Beijing.


                                China stood ready to work with African countries including Eritrea to jointly safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries
                            

Mr Wang Yi said that China and Eritrea were traditional friends and had always enjoyed mutual understanding and support on issues concerning each other's core interests and major concerns. He said China was willing, together with the Eritrean side, to enhance their exchanges, increase understanding, and deepen mutual trust to achieve common development. He pointed out that African countries had taken an active part in the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in September last year and the Second Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation last month. These were helping to strengthen integration and implement outcomes to achieve common development under the frameworks of the FOCAC Beijing Summit and the joint construction of the Belt and Road Initiative. In these circumstances, he said, practical bilateral cooperation needed to catch up with the impressive trend of developing China-Africa cooperation. Mr Wang Yi said China was willing to share development opportunities with Eritrea to achieve mutual benefit and win-win results. It was happy to see the improvements in the situation in the Horn of Africa, and it was willing to continue to play a constructive role in this regard. He emphasized that China’s relationship with African countries was based on non-interference in each other's internal affairs, and stressed that China agreed with the proposition that African issues should be resolved by Africa. China stood ready to work with African countries including Eritrea to jointly safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries.



Foreign minister Saleh conveyed President Isaias Afwerki's sincere greetings and best wishes to President Xi Jinping. He said that as developing countries, Eritrea and China shared similar experiences and both had always firmly supported each other. China was a long-term and true friend, and Minister Osman said China was welcome to play a positive role in promoting peace and stability in the Horn of Africa. The comprehensive development achievements China had made were important contributions to the world. Eritrea stood ready to advance exchanges and cooperation in diplomacy, economy, society, culture and other fields, as well as enhance communication and coordination in international and regional affairs. This would encourage a partnership between Eritrea and China for sustained, sound and stable development. Both sides exchanged views on international and regional issues of common concern.