DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, October 24, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            Canon (Canon-ME.com), a world leader in imaging and printing solutions, is proud to announce its involvement in the Innovation Africa 2019 event taking place in Accra, Ghana, on 3-5 December. Canon is delighted to support the 9th edition of Africa’s official ministerial summit as the event’s Diamond Partner and Imaging Solution Exclusive Partner, further strengthening the firm’s commitment to Africa’s future.



Innovation Africa is firmly established as the continent’s premier ministerial forum, where national leaders and senior government officials from over 40 countries join industry partners for high-level discussions on education, innovation and ICT. This year’s event will be hosted under the official patronage of the Government of Ghana led by the Hon Dr Matthew Opoku Prempeh, Minister of Education, and co-hosted by the Hon Ursula Owusu-Ekuful, Minister of Communications.



Canon representative, Somesh Adukia, will be addressing exhibitors and key high-level delegates at an exclusive event on December 3rd, one day before the main summit. Adukia will be presenting Canon’s strategy for Africa in 2020 and discussing the important balance between economic and social development across the continent. Canon will also make its state-of-the-art machinery in Ghana available to the event organisers and other exhibitors for their wide range of printing needs during the event.
                                The CCNA team will be present and active in panel discussions, seminars, roundtables, and one-on-one meetings throughout the prestigious three-day summit
                            



CCCC says Somesh Adukia Regional Sales Office Director, Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). “As Diamond Partner and Imaging Solution Exclusive Partner, we will be at the heart of the action at this year’s event and we are enthusiastic to help make this the best Innovation Africa event yet, for everyone involved.”



The CCNA team will be present and active in panel discussions, seminars, roundtables, and one-on-one meetings throughout the prestigious three-day summit. Event organisers, AfricanBrains, works closely with African governments to maximise high-level delegates at the event. Over 250 ministers and government officials from across the continent are expected to attend, alongside leading private sector companies such as Canon and Cambridge University.



“We are proud to announce the 9th Innovation Africa taking place in Accra in 2019, under the official patronage of the Government of Ghana,” said John Glassey, AfricanBrains CEO, the Africa Innovation 2019 event organisers. “In 2019, the full force of the Government of Ghana, under cabinet endorsement, will be ensuring a record number of participating ministers from across the continent. As well as being co-hosted by both ministries of education and communications, the key education & ICT stakeholders from Ghana will play key roles in ensuring the delivery of a multilayered landmark summit.”