JOHANNESBURG, South Africa, October 29, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            On the 27th of November 2019, IT News Africa (ITNewsAfrica.com) is set to host the Digital Manufacturing Africa (DigitalManufacturingAfrica.com) summit at the Altron Conference Centre in Midrand. Ai, IIOT and Automation are changing the face of manufacturing as we know it, placing digitization at the top of every CxO’s agenda. In the current economic climate adopting new radical approaches to digital transformation in manufacturing is critical in order to stay competitive. Studies show that the adoption of new technologies such as IIOT, Ai, automation, analytics and cloud has been slow in the manufacturing industry, where a mindset shift needs to happen in order to boost efficiency and product quality, and reduce operational costs. This needs to be a coordinated, strategic effort to increase revenue and stave off the competition.



Digital Manufacturing Africa (DigitalManufacturingAfrica.com) 2019 will unpack the importance and benefits of implementing new technologies and methodologies in manufacturing. This event will examine how manufacturers can migrate from complex legacy systems and digitally transform their operations in order to improve efficiency and maximize profits. It will also discuss how companies can help their employees and stakeholders embrace digitization in order to enhance productivity both on the factory floor and in the back office. Discussions will look into how automation, if implemented intelligently, can increase accuracy, product quality and reduce costs.

Digital Manufacturing Africa (DigitalManufacturingAfrica.com) 2019 is designed for manufacturing executives and factory heads interested in integrating/expanding Machine Learning, AI and IoT technology into their automation or manufacturing systems. Presentations and panel discussions will discuss return on investments, case studies, strategies for integration, technology and manufacturing trends.

The conference will provide opportunities to network with Factory Automation, AI and Machine Learning experts, as well as local and international manufacturers who have already started using smart manufacturing solutions.

Why attend:


	Gain the tools and strategies needed to embark on your journey to digital manufacturing
	Learn to improve operational efficiency and reduce production costs by adopting cutting edge technologies
	Find out how to prolong the lifespan of key assets and machinery by adopting new technologies
	Prepare your workforce for the future of manufacturing
	Gain the knowledge needed to become an agent of digital change within your organisation
	Fully understand how the use of Ai, IIOT, Analytics and Automation can improve your processes and reduce down time
	Hear from manufacturing executives who have already implemented game changing technologies in their organisations
	Chat one-on-one with best of breed manufacturing technology providers and experts           
	Get answers to your questions about the impact of the 4th industrial revolution on your sector




Key topics at the Digital Manufacturing Africa will include:


	The Smart Factory of Tomorrow – Are you prepared?
	“The Robots are Coming”: Preparing your Workforce for Industry 4.0 
	Measuring the ROI of Predictive Maintenance Solutions
	How Leading Manufacturers are Responding to Digital
	Developing your Smart Manufacturing Road Map: Setting the Stage for Digital Success
	Monitoring and Analysing Factory Data with IOT to identify Machine Problems Using Connected Devices
	Supply Chain: Digitizing your Supply Chain through Process Automation




How to Participate:

Join as an attendee (bit.ly/32VyxVx): Get to know already implemented AI and Automation solutions from world market leaders, meet like-minded people and discuss opportunities, limits and risks with the experts on site. As a beacon event, the conference shows the current state of the manufacturing industry in South Africa on the subject of AI and Automation. 

Join as a speaker: Showcase your thought-leadership. Share your insights and experience. Shape solutions to critical business challenges.

Join us as an exhibitor (bit.ly/36ilQGy): Reinforce your position as a leading provider of technology solutions.

For those looking for maximum exposure, our sponsorship packages offer a great opportunity to showcase your brand, speak and present your solutions to a select audience. Packages are available for all budgets, but spots are limited.

For more information about this conference, visit: DigitalManufacturingAfrica.com