ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, October 21, 2019/APO Group/ -- 
                                                        
                            For the 3rd consecutive year, Abidjan will welcome from November 22nd to 24th, the Electronic and Video Game Festival of Abidjan (FEJA) at COSMOS YOPOUGON. Hosted by Paradise Game and made possible by Orange Cote d’Ivoire, this event offers a unique experience to gamers and regional video game industry players.



FEJA 3, A new step. This year the esports tournaments will be open to every African citizen and every person living in Africa without having to go through qualifiers. Every African gamer would be allowed to participate in the major FEJA tournaments (Fifa, Pes, Street fighter, Tekken, Fortnite) and all the « side events » (Clash Royale, Mortal Kombat, Naruto, DBZ, COD, etc.). Registration for the tournaments started on October 17th on the website www.FEJA.ci.
                                Video Games could help create 200 000 jobs in Africa in the upcoming 5 years
                            

After successfully attracting video game lovers and professionals from 10 countries the two previous editions, 12 African countries are targeted this year.

With more than 5000 sqm dedicated to the event, the participants of the festival will enjoy a rich program with esports tournaments (Football, Versus fighting, Mobile Games), conferences and workshops, exhibitions, and entertainment.

Through this third edition, Paradise Game intends to promote the opportunities that video games 100% Made in Africa could provide for the continent. Discussions and panels will revolve around the ideal ecosystem to put in place for the continent. In that perspective, FEJA is broadening its reach to development partners in the video game field and look closely at the content creation and to setting up video game studios. Industry players will share their experience during Workshops. 

Sidick Bakayoko, Founder and CEO de Paradise Game, producer of the event declared:

« Video Games could help create 200 000 jobs in Africa in the upcoming 5 years. It is then key to establish a sustainable industry based on strong local players, experienced international partners and engaged governments. An ecosystem promoting video game creation would allow more game studios which would mean more more jobs created. »